
--- MLC Business Case PRD - Data - Part 2.pdf ---

[Page 1]
💱
Business Case - MLC (Multi-
language courses) 
Status Complete
Category Product Brief
Team Collaboration Team
Quarter Q1'25 Q2'25 Q3'24
Last updated time
👥
Table of Contents
Januar y 9 , 2026 548 PM
T able of Cont ent s
TL; DR
PROBLEM
What ʼ s t he Cust omer Pr oblem,  who is t he cust omer ,  and wh y does it mat t er?
T ar get Segment
What dat a suppor t s t he pr oblem?
Wh y is no w t he r ight time t o sol v e t his pr oblem?
SOLUTION 
Pr oposed Solution
Milest ones and Timeline
Milest ones,  T ar get dat es & scope
Cust omer Communic ation Plan
A ssumptions,  Out st anding Issues,  and K e y Decisions
LA UNCH
Ho w Will t his Pr oduct be Launched?
Metr ics t o T r ack and Ho w t o T r ack Them
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
1

[Page 2]
TL; DR
Product
Hypothesis
We believe that by building multi-language in one SCORM MLS
targeting Tier 2 and 3 customers will significantly improve the user
experience of managing languages and contribute to reducing the
probability of churn.  
 
Our success measures are: 
 Increase the number of Automated Translations add-on purchases 
 Reduce the number of duplicated courses created for translations
over time
What
Manage all their translations via the original course. They wonʼt have
to manage each language as a separate course.  
  
Submit their course in multiple languages as one SCORM package to
their LMS systems. 
Why Based on the CSM feedback in August 2024 Product Committee
CSM.xlsx), MLS has been identified as the most critical need. 
When
Private beta release 
 Milestone 1 Late May 2025 
 Milestone 2 Late June 2025 
 Milestone 3 Early July 2025 
 
Release to all eligible customers: Mid-July 2025
PROBLEM
Whatʼs the Customer Problem, who is the customer, and why 
does it matter?
Companies building onboarding or training materials for global teams require 
courses to be translated into multiple languages. While itʼs possible to translate 
a course into multiple languages on EG, here are the key problems with the 
current solution:
Editing and managing existing translated courses: when changes need to 
be made, each translated course needs to be manually edited and 
translated. The higher the number of courses and translations, the more 
time-consuming and difficult it gets.
Def inition of Success,  A doption Go als/KPIs
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
2

[Page 3]
Uploading courses onto LMS: the author is unable to upload the different 
translations as a single SCROM package. They must manually upload all the 
translations separately.
Tracking course results: due to translations being their own courses, 
authors donʼt have centralized analytics view which makes it hard to track 
the course performance.
Target Segment
This problem is particularly felt by our Tier 2 and Tier 3 customers who have 
staff all over the world and have many courses.
For example, our customer Unicredit Italian bank) has 10k+ employees globally 
and has thousands of courses. Majority of the time, they need the course in 3 
languages English, Italian, German) but certain courses need to be translated 
up to 40 languages. For these types of customers with such a scale, 
Easygenerator wonʼt meet their needs.
What data supports the problem?
Our PM Nuno and Product Designer Raghul conducted 14 user interviews 
between Q2Q3 2024
6x Tier 3 Volvo, Unicredit, Nissan, Danone, Etex, Kantar
6x Tier 2 Mint, Cartier, DEME, Arcus FM, Bacardi, Azelis
1x Tier 0 Kolabori
1x internal: Abigail Fairest
Their research findings and summary can be found here: ML1S  Customer 
Interview Research Outcome.xlsx. The key takeaways are:
All participants indicated that the current system is challenging to manage. 
Administrators struggle to find and update courses in various languages 
and track completion rates.
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
3

[Page 4]
All participants highlighted the need for centralized analytics for courses, 
regardless of the language in which learners complete them.
Why is now the right time to solve this problem?
Based on the CSM feedback in August 2024 Product Committee CSM.xlsx), 
MLS has been identified as the most critical need with the highest score 
compared to other challenges / opportunities in the product. If we donʼt invest 
into addressing the identified problems, it will increase the likelihood of 
customers who bought Easygenerator for managing multiple language use 
cases to churn.
SOLUTION 
Proposed Solution
With multi-language in one SCORM MLS, our customers will benefit from:
Manage all their translations via the original course. They wonʼt have to 
manage each language as a separate course.
When they make changes to the course, the changes will automatically 
propagate to all the translated versions, and the text will be translated too.
Submit their course in multiple languages as one SCORM package to their 
LMS systems.
Have centralized analytics view where they can look at course analytics on 
the language level or as all languages combined
Authorʼs perspective
New entry point to translate default course into other languages 
Figma).
In Course settings  Translations, weʼve made changes:
Introduce a new tab called “Multi-language versionsˮ
Rename the “Course translationˮ into “Independent Coursesˮ 
Figma)
Move “Interface labelsˮ under “Multi-language versionˮ tab Figma). 
This can only be edited after translations have been made.
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
4

[Page 5]
In “Multi-language versionsˮ, the author can choose:
Auto-translation
Exporting XLIFF and importing the translated version 
Manually translate 
In the course, switch between the default language and the translated 
language(s).
Preview the course and preview the different translations.
Changes to course structure, content and questions
Changing the course structure can only be done in the default 
language. Structural change is considered as adding/removing a 
page, content block or question to the course. We will communicate 
to the author that they canʼt edit a translated version.
Changing content in the translated course is possible. Content is 
meant by text, image, video, audio.
Changing answers to questions isnʼt possible. We will communicate 
that in-app.
Change in the course structure in the default language will be 
propagated to all translated versions. We will inform the author when 
changing the course structure.
Have centralised analytics to see data for the course as a whole or by 
translated languages.
NOTE Existing sections to be reused in a different course wonʼt be 
available for auto-translatio.
Learnerʼs perspective
The learner will be able to select in which language he/she wants to 
take. When the learner opens the course, a selection of translated 
versions will pop up.
The reviewer can also change the language.
Reviewerʼs perspective
The reviewer will be able to select in which language he/she wants to 
take. When the reviewer opens the course, a selection of translated 
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
5

[Page 6]
versions will pop up.
The reviewer can also change the language.
LMS integrations
If we donʼt have an integration with the partner, the author manually 
downloads the SCORM package and uploads it to their LMS system.
If we have an integration with a partner, the author can push the update 
via the integration.
Milestones and Timeline
As of 28th January, the remaining scope for MLS to complete stands at 173.5 
story points (see dashboard). Further scope reductions are not feasible, as 
doing so would significantly compromise the user experience. With our current 
team capacity 2 full-time developers, 2 part-time developers), delivering MLS 
in full would take approximately 7.5 months. This timeline does not account for 
QA testing or unplanned work / unknown unknowns.
To accelerate value delivery and incorporate customer feedback sooner, we 
propose releasing MLS through a structured public BETA program. This offers 
the following benefits:
Deliver Incremental Value to Customers By releasing features iteratively, 
we can provide functional value to customers earlier while continuing to 
develop additional features.
Set Clear Expectations Communicate the staged release process to beta 
customers through documentation or onboarding sessions to align their 
expectations.
Milestones, Target dates & scope
The MLS public BETA will be structured into multiple milestones, each with a 
clearly defined target date, goal, and scope.
Milestone 1  Create and distribute multilingual courses
Goal Authors can create multiple translations in a single course and 
distribute it to learners.
Target date Late May 2025
Scope:
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
6

[Page 7]
Authoring Features
Navigate to the translation configuration settings in the new 
Editor
Select languages and auto-translate (or manual translate)
Select your default language
Edit interface labels
Edit existing MLS course
Preview your course and select between languages
Restrictions
Prohibit course structure edits in child languages, restrict 
section reuse
Restrict authors from re-using sections in MLS courses
Learner Features
Learner can select a language in the MLS course
Store languages in Gradebook
Milestone 2  Enhance review and analytics capabilities
Goal Implement analytics and expand author & reviewer functionalities.
Target date Late June 2025
Scope:
Course Analytics
View Insights
View Gradebook
View Survey
Remove a translated language
Reviewer can select a language in the MLS course
Show comments specifically created in the selected course 
language
Export CSV will include all language versions
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
7

[Page 8]
Duplicate the MLS course
Milestone 3  Finalize missing MLS functionalities
Goal: Deliver remaining key functionalities to prepare for a full release 
of MLS
Target date: Early July 2025
Scope: 
Translate via XLIFF
Select which language to export as a PDF file
Customer Communication Plan
Effective customer communication is crucial to the success of the MLS private 
beta program. Below is the plan outlining how customers will be engaged, 
informed, and supported throughout the beta:
Setting Clear Expectations
Customers will be informed that MLS features will be released 
iteratively, meaning not all functionalities will be available immediately.
Communication will clearly outline the benefits of participating in the 
beta program and what to expect in terms of incomplete features or 
bugs during the beta phase.
Feedback Collection
During the beta, customers will be encouraged to provide feedback on:
Usability of the released features.
Challenges or issues encountered during their workflows.
Feedback will be collected and managed by the PM (Anh) and Designer 
Kate):
11 interview with selected beta participants.
Proactive follow-ups based on customer usage patterns.
Closing the Beta Program
Once all features are delivered, the beta program will be formally 
closed, and MLS will be rolled out to all eligible customers.
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
8

[Page 9]
Assumptions, Outstanding Issues, and Key 
Decisions
Q What other solution approaches did we explore?
Answer: Before implementing the current MLS, we explored a different 
approach. We looked at “Bundling Courses into a SCORM Packageˮ where 
the author selects multiple languages and bundles them into one SCORM 
package. We discarded this approach because it was a hack, it would make 
future development difficult, and it didnʼt solve 2 core use cases:
Editing and managing existing translated courses
Tracking course results.
Q Whatʼs the maximum size of the SCORM package we will support? Whatʼs 
the max. of languages we will support?
Answer: There are two limitations: 1 set by AWS translations service and 2 
SCORM size limit of the LMS. For AWS, the downloading is capped at 15min 
and different LMSes will have different limits (e.g. 100MB to 500MB. 
Weʼve decided that we wonʼt set any limit until we see critical feedback 
after beta milestone 1 release. If we see that the SCORM downloads fail 
frequently, we will communicate in-product to make customers aware. We 
wonʼt be able to affect the size limit on the LMSes side. The customer will 
have to set the size limit accordingly in EG before uploading it to their LMS.
LAUNCH
How Will this Product be Launched?
Pricing plan: 
We will add MLS as part of the Automated Translations AT add-on 
package.
XLIFF translation will be moved from Enteprise plan to the AT add-on.
All AT customers will get access to MLS. MLS can be disabled/enabled in 
the Admin Dashboard in case customer-facing teams need to negotiate an 
updated contract.
Metrics to Track and How to Track Them
REDACTED
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
9

[Page 10]
Definition of Success, Adoption Goals/KPIs
REDACTED
Business Case  ML C Mul ti-language courses)
10
